
======================
Office 365 Provisioner
======================

The Office 365 provisioner uses the Microsoft Graph API to provision accounts
and licenses into an Office 365 tenant.

To use the :py:class:`~txamqpprovisioner.o365_provisioner.O365Provisioner`
backend, set the *provisioner* option under the APPLICATION section to
**o365_provisioner**.

----------------------
Account Representation
----------------------

The O365 provisioner makes assumptions about how accounts are represented.
The provisioner assumes that the **userPrincipalName** of the remote account
will be "*subject-id@domain*".  This decision is made in the 
:py:meth:`~txamqpprovisioner.o365_provisioner.O365Provisioner.get_match_value_from_remote_account`
and
:py:meth:`~txamqpprovisioner.o365_provisioner.O365Provisioner.get_match_value_from_local_subject`
methods of the :py:class:`txamqpprovisioner.o365_provisioner.O365Provisioner` class.

-------------
Configuration
-------------

The options for the o365 provisioner are:

* **client_id** - The client ID for the tenant.
* **domain** - The domain the tenant serves (e.g. lafayette.edu).
* **license_map** - A mapping from group names to license SKUs (see below).

Example:

.. code:: ini

    [PROVISIONER]
    log_level = DEBUG
    client_id = 01234567-0123-0123-0123-1234567890ab
    client_secret = CLIENT-SECRET 
    domain = example.org
    endpoint = tls:host=graph.microsoft.com:port=443
    url_prefix = https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
    provision_group = app:o365:policies:o365
    unmanaged_logins = admin@example.org


"""""""""""""""
The License Map
"""""""""""""""

Licenses are manages as access control groups/policies by the provisioner.
When the provisioner receives a membership event (e.g. add account "bob" to
group "app:o365:policies:faculty_license"), it needs to map the group to
a series of SKUs/product IDs that are to be enabled or disabled.  The mapping
is a simple JSON file.  For example:

.. code:: json

    {
        "license_faculty": {
            "sku": "01234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
            "disabled_products": [
                "91234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "81234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "71234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "61234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "51234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc"
            ]
        },
        "license_students": {
            "sku": "21234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
            "disabled_products": [
                "91234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "81234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "71234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "61234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc",
                "51234567-0123-0123-0123-0123456789abc"
            ]
        }
    }

