docs/ldap-provisioner.rst, before:


================
LDAP Provisioner
================

-------------------------
Provisioner Configuration
-------------------------

The :py:class:`LDAPProvisioner` service stores messages in batches and reflects
the changes in an LDAP :term:`DIT` at regular intervals.  This can minimizei
writes to LDAP group entries that might require repeated modification in a short
time span.  The LDAP provisioner can be configured to provision LDAP groups and
user entries.  A single provisioner can modify both simultaneously or only
groups or only user entries.  This can be optimal for LDAP service 
implementations that require user entries and groups to be updated independently
of one another (e.g. OpenLDAP).

The options for the LDAP provisioner are:

* **log_level** (optional) - This option can override the global log level for 
  events logged by this service.
* **sqlite_db** (required) - The path to an sqlite3 database file used to store
  messages for batch processing.  If the file does not exist, it will be created.
* **group_map** (required) - This JSON configuration file maps Grouper groups or
  stems to LDAP group names or templates.  If a group message does not match an
  entry in this configuration, it will be ignored.
* **url** (required) - The LDAP service URL.  E.g. `ldaps://127.0.0.1:389`.
* **start_tls** (optional) - After connecting to the LDAP service, request
  StartTLS encryption (default false)
* **base_dn** (required) - The base DN used in searches when looking up group
  and user entries.
* **bind_dn** (required) - BIND as this DN prior to searching the :term:`DIT`
  or modifying its entries.
* **passwd** (required) - Password for the **bind_dn** option.
* **empty_dn** (optional) - A DN used to populate a group if it would otherwise be empty.  This
  is useful for LDAP groups with the `groupOfNames` schema, as it is a schema
  violation to remove the `member` attribute entirely.  If all members would be removed
  from the group, the **empty_dn** value is used instead.  
  E.g. `cn=nobody,ou=nowhere,dc=example,dc=org`.

"""""""
Example
"""""""

.. code-block:: ini

    [PROVISIONER]
    log_level = WARN
    url = ldap://directory0.lafayette.edu:389/
    start_tls = 1
    base_dn = o=lafayette
    bind_dn = cn=ldap-manager,ou=servicedns,o=lafayette
    passwd = LDAP-PASSWORD
    empty_dn=cn=nobody,ou=nowhere,o=lafayette
    group_attribute = member
    user_attribute = memberOf
    group_value_type = dn
    user_value_type = dn
    batch_interval = 20
    group_map = /etc/txamqpprovisioners/provisioners/ldap/groupmap.json


-----------------------
Group Map Configuration
-----------------------

The group map is a JSON file that maps fully qualified Grouper group names to
LDAP group identifiers (e.g. a CN).  It can also map a Grouper stem to a template.
Grouper stems are denoted with a trailing colon (':').

Valid targets for a group can be an LDAP group name (string) or an LDAP group
configuration (dictionary) consisting of the following keys:

* **group**: (string) The LDAP group.
* **create_group**: (boolean) Create the group in the DIT if it cannot be found 
  by searching.
* **create_context**: (string) The parent DN under which the group should be 
  created if the **create_group** option is set to `true`.

Alternatively, the inbound membership can be used to provision an attribute by
providing a dictionary with the following keys:

* **attribute**: (string) The LDAP attribute name.
* **value**: (string) The LDAP attribute value to add/remove.
* **multi_valued**: (boolean) A flag that indicates whether this attribute can have
  multiple values.

Valid targets for a stem may be either a template (string) or an LDAP template
configuration (dictionary) consiting of the following keys:

* **template**: (string) A Jinja2 template that will undergo substitutions with
  the following variables:

    * `group`: The base Grouper group name (no stem).
    * `stem`: The stem of the Grouper group.
    * `fqgroup`: The fully qualified Grouper group name (includes stem).

* **create_group**: (boolean) Create the group in the DIT if it cannot be found 
  by searching.
* **create_context**: (string) The parent DN under which the group should be 
  created if the **create_group** option is set to `true`.

Commit message:

Updated documentation; clarifications for running software; tag name for LDAP provisioner.

docs/ldap-provisioner.rst, after:


================
LDAP Provisioner
================

-------------------------
Provisioner Configuration
-------------------------

To use the :py:class:`LDAPProvisioner` backend, set the provisioner option under the APPLICATION 
section to **ldap**.

The :py:class:`LDAPProvisioner` service stores messages in batches and reflects
the changes in an LDAP :term:`DIT` at regular intervals.  This can minimize
writes to LDAP group entries that might require repeated modification in a short
time span.  The LDAP provisioner can be configured to provision LDAP groups and
user attributes.  A single provisioner can modify both simultaneously or only
groups or only user entries.  This can be optimal for LDAP service 
implementations that require user entries and groups to be updated independently
of one another (e.g. OpenLDAP).

The options for the LDAP provisioner are:

* **log_level** (optional) - This option can override the global log level for 
  events logged by this service.
* **sqlite_db** (required) - The path to an sqlite3 database file used to store
  messages for batch processing.  If the file does not exist, it will be created.
* **group_map** (required) - This JSON configuration file maps Grouper groups or
  stems to LDAP group names or templates.  If a group message does not match an
  entry in this configuration, it will be ignored.
* **url** (required) - The LDAP service URL.  E.g. `ldaps://127.0.0.1:389`.
* **start_tls** (optional) - After connecting to the LDAP service, request
  StartTLS encryption (default false)
* **base_dn** (required) - The base DN used in searches when looking up group
  and user entries.
* **bind_dn** (required) - BIND as this DN prior to searching the :term:`DIT`
  or modifying its entries.
* **passwd** (required) - Password for the **bind_dn** option.
* **empty_dn** (optional) - A DN used to populate a group if it would otherwise be empty.  This
  is useful for LDAP groups with the `groupOfNames` schema, as it is a schema
  violation to remove the `member` attribute entirely.  If all members would be removed
  from the group, the **empty_dn** value is used instead.  
  E.g. `cn=nobody,ou=nowhere,dc=example,dc=org`.

"""""""
Example
"""""""

.. code-block:: ini

    [PROVISIONER]
    log_level = WARN
    url = ldap://directory0.lafayette.edu:389/
    start_tls = 1
    base_dn = o=lafayette
    bind_dn = cn=ldap-manager,ou=servicedns,o=lafayette
    passwd = LDAP-PASSWORD
    empty_dn=cn=nobody,ou=nowhere,o=lafayette
    group_attribute = member
    user_attribute = memberOf
    group_value_type = dn
    user_value_type = dn
    batch_interval = 20
    group_map = /etc/txamqpprovisioners/provisioners/ldap/groupmap.json


-----------------------
Group Map Configuration
-----------------------

The group map is a JSON file that maps fully qualified Grouper group names to
LDAP group identifiers (e.g. a CN).  It can also map a Grouper stem to a template.
Grouper stems are denoted with a trailing colon (':').

Valid targets for a group can be an LDAP group name (string) or an LDAP group
configuration (dictionary) consisting of the following keys:

* **group**: (string) The LDAP group.
* **create_group**: (boolean) Create the group in the DIT if it cannot be found 
  by searching.
* **create_context**: (string) The parent DN under which the group should be 
  created if the **create_group** option is set to `true`.

Alternatively, the inbound membership can be used to provision an attribute by
providing a dictionary with the following keys:

* **attribute**: (string) The LDAP attribute name.
* **value**: (string) The LDAP attribute value to add/remove.
* **multi_valued**: (boolean) A flag that indicates whether this attribute can have
  multiple values.

Valid targets for a stem may be either a template (string) or an LDAP template
configuration (dictionary) consiting of the following keys:

* **template**: (string) A Jinja2 template that will undergo substitutions with
  the following variables:

    * `group`: The base Grouper group name (no stem).
    * `stem`: The stem of the Grouper group.
    * `fqgroup`: The fully qualified Grouper group name (includes stem).

* **create_group**: (boolean) Create the group in the DIT if it cannot be found 
  by searching.
* **create_context**: (string) The parent DN under which the group should be 
  created if the **create_group** option is set to `true`.
